# Exercise 3
## Creating small tools


1) Read [the man page for the UNIX command tee](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/tee.1.html).
And [the Wikipedia page about it](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tee_(command)).

2) Write an implementation of `tee` that takes the same command-line
arguments (short form only, or for optional extra fun, both long and
short form).  Implementing the `-i` option is optional.

This is meant as an exercise in efficient C development, which includes:

* Problem decomposition: what pieces do I need?

* Solution location: mostly Google->stackoverflow.

* Assimilation: bringing in the pieces and testing them.

* Integration: putting the pieces together.

For this particular problem, we could skip just find a solution.  But let's take the opportunity to practice.

3) Reflect: what worked, what slowed you down?  What would you do
differently next time?

One thing that really helped me to approach this problem was to look over some of the examples in Head First C. This helped to get me started and get a simple implementation working for all the parts of the problem. Then the next step was just trying to put the pieces together in the right way. I also found it helpful to look back at an old assignment where we had read input from the user. In this way, I was able to piece together a lot of parts of the code that I felt confident about to make the program. One silly thing that definitely slowed me down was that I forgot to compile my code before running it and then I was stuck trying to debug code that I was not actually running until I commented everything but one print statement out and realized I was simply not compiling the code. Next time, I might start off by trying to break the problem down into things I knew how to do instead of googling around for a while before realizing that this was my best strategy.

4) Compare your solution to [this professional implementation](https://opensource.apple.com/source/shell_cmds/shell_cmds-170/tee/tee.c) or [this one](http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=coreutils.git;a=blob;f=src/tee.c;h=5f04bfc86243911be2fb22c7c28447ae6fb0f993;hb=75aababed45d0120d44baa76c5107d0ceb71fc59).  What do you see in professional code that is not in your solution?

The professional code has far more error checking than is in my solution. Additionally, they have a help text displayed if you type something invalid or type help in the arguments. I did not implement this specific feature. That said, my code has the same functionality as the professional tee code. In the future, I would work more to add more error checking and additional features to my tee program.

5) Write comments in your code to answer the last two questions, then check it in to the repo.
